#summary How to download and install Harvestman-crawler
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Check out code from svn =
 * First you need to checkout version of harvestman from repository.You will need '''subversion''' program to do that. When subversion is installed run this command:
{{{
svn checkout http://harvestman-crawler.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ harvestman-crawler
}}}

= Install harvestman =

== Requirements ==
 * Harvestman requires:
 
 1. python2.4 or higher. (python2.3 untested)
 1. python-dev package
 1. sgmlop,pyparsing,web.py which will get installed automatically as part of the installation.

== Installation of harvestman ==
 * You have two options of installing harvestman. You can install it in a system base folder or you can use virtualenv to install it.
=== Vritualenv ===
 * If you want to use virtualenv
 * Setup virtualenv folder. If you don't have virtualenv install it using *easy_install virtualenv*
{{{
virtualenv --no-site-packages harvestmanENV

You should see:
New python executable in harvestmanENV/bin/python
Installing setuptools............done.
}}}
 * Activate your virtual setup.
{{{
source harvestmanENV/bin/activate
}}}
 * You should see (harvestmanENV) on your command line:
{{{
(harvestmanENV)lucas@delldebian:~/tmp$ 
}}}
 * Now go into the harvestman folder and install it
{{{
cd harvestman-crawler/HarvestMan/
python setup.py install
}}}
 * Test the installation by running:
{{{
harvestman --selftest
}}}
=== system wide installation ===
 *If you want to do a system wide installation:
 * Go into the harvestman folder, and run setup file.
{{{
cd harvestman-crawler/HarvestMan/
python setup.py install
}}}